I've been asked to say a few
words to the truckers in Ottawa.
I've given that some careful consideration.
You protesters habe accomplished an awful lot
already. The conservative leadership has crumbled.
Erin O'Toole has been replaced by someone who
is giving a fair bit of voice to your concerns.
All the people you represent have
a voice in the house of commons.
You have four provinces that
have moved quite precipitously
in the direction that the protest was hoping
for. They are starting to lift mask mandates on
something approximating as reasonable a timeline
as might be expected under the circumstances.
You're now faced with a difficult choice:
what are your criteria for satisfaction.
You need to determine that, so that you
can negotiate with the necessary people.
You're also faced with another danger
at the moment, now that which is that
the political process bent in the direction
that you've insisted upon -- rightly, in my
estimation. This, more and more of you who are
most reasonable are going to pack up and leave,
or decide that this is done sometime over
the next week or so (or couple of weeks:
that's obviously up to you) --, but there'll
be a remnant that's much more committed in some
sense to more extreme goals.That's going
to be something very difficult to manage.
I'd like to commend all of you for your
diligence and work -- on accomplishing what you
have accomplished under trying conditions -- and
also for keeping your heads in a way that's been
a model for the entire world. You've been able
to remain peaceful. You haven't taken the bait.
You haven't responded with violence to quite
remarkable denigration and provocation. That's
a sign of tremendous discipline and care.
It's going to get more difficult to maintain as
this goes along. So I hope that you're all able to
allow a sufficient victory to be sufficient,
to move forward without greed -- to
be grateful for the effect that you've
already had, and the support you've received,
to move forward to a normative peace and the
re-establishment of our country's economy and our
psychological and social wellbeing. That's pretty
much all I have to say at this point. Thank you.